SECURITY_FIXES.md, before:

# Security Fixes Applied

## Critical API Key Security Fix

### ✅ Completed Actions

1. **Removed exposed .env file from git history**
   - Used `git rm --cached .env` to remove from tracking
   - Committed the removal: `git commit -m "Remove exposed environment file"`

2. **Updated .gitignore**
   - Added `.env`, `.env.local`, and `.env.production` to prevent future exposure
   - Committed the updated .gitignore

3. **Refactored environment variable handling**
   - Updated `src/services/config/environment.ts` with strict validation
   - Replaced direct environment access with validated configuration
   - Updated `src/features/conversation/ConversationDialogue.tsx` to use new config
   - Updated `src/services/api/GeminiApiService.ts` to use new config

### 🔧 Required Manual Actions

**You MUST complete these steps immediately:**

1. **Rotate your Google Generative AI API key**
   - Go to [Google AI Studio](https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey)
   - Delete your current API key (the one that was exposed)
   - Generate a new API key

2. **Set up your environment variables**
   - Copy `.env.example` to `.env`
   - Add your new API key to `.env`:
     ```
     VITE_GOOGLE_GENERATIVE_AI_API_KEY=your_new_api_key_here
     ```

3. **Verify the fix works**
   - Run `npm run dev` to test the application
   - Ensure the conversation feature works correctly

### 📁 Files Created/Updated

- `.gitignore` - Added environment file patterns
- `.env.example` - Template for environment variables
- `src/services/config/environment.ts` - Refactored environment configuration
- `src/features/conversation/ConversationDialogue.tsx` - Updated to use new config
- `src/services/api/GeminiApiService.ts` - Updated to use new config

### ⚠️ Important Notes

- **Never commit `.env` files to version control**
- **Always use environment variables for sensitive data**
- **The old API key should be considered compromised and replaced immediately**
- **Share the new `.env.example` file with your team, never the actual `.env` file**

Commit message:

refactor: migrate to vitest and improve test setup
feat(conversation): update Message interface and memoize components
feat(loading): add LoadingSpinner component
feat(analytics): implement AnalyticsService
feat(config): add ConfigurationService
feat(speech): implement SpeechRecognitionService

fix(environment): handle missing API keys gracefully
fix(marketplace): update store usage and component structure

perf(app): lazy load routes and components
perf(build): optimize vite config with compression and chunking

test: add comprehensive test suites for conversation features
test: setup vitest environment with mocks

chore: update dependencies and migrate from jest to vitest
chore: update documentation and architecture guidelines

ci: update test command to use vitest

SECURITY_FIXES.md, after:

# Security Fixes Applied

## Critical API Key Security Fix

### ✅ Completed Actions

1. **Removed exposed .env file from git history**
   - Used `git rm --cached .env` to remove from tracking
   - Committed the removal: `git commit -m "Remove exposed environment file"`

2. **Updated .gitignore**
   - Added `.env`, `.env.local`, and `.env.production` to prevent future exposure
   - Committed the updated .gitignore

3. **Refactored environment variable handling**
   - Updated `src/services/config/environment.ts` with strict validation
   - Replaced direct environment access with validated configuration
   - Updated `src/features/conversation/ConversationDialogue.tsx` to use new config
   - Updated `src/services/api/GeminiApiService.ts` to use new config

### 🔧 Required Manual Actions

**You MUST complete these steps immediately:**

1. **Rotate your Google Generative AI API key**
   - Go to [Google AI Studio](https://makersuite.google.com/app/apikey)
   - Delete your current API key (the one that was exposed)
   - Generate a new API key

2. **Set up your environment variables**
   - Copy `.env.example` to `.env`
   - Add your new API key to `.env`:
     ```
     VITE_GOOGLE_GENERATIVE_AI_API_KEY=your_new_api_key_here
     ```

3. **Verify the fix works**
   - Run `npm run dev` to test the application
   - The app will now gracefully handle missing API keys with helpful warnings
   - Check browser console for any configuration issues

### 📁 Files Created/Updated

- `.gitignore` - Added environment file patterns
- `.env.example` - Template for environment variables
- `src/services/config/environment.ts` - Refactored environment configuration
- `src/features/conversation/ConversationDialogue.tsx` - Updated to use new config
- `src/services/api/GeminiApiService.ts` - Updated to use new config

### ⚠️ Important Notes

- **Never commit `.env` files to version control**
- **Always use environment variables for sensitive data**
- **The old API key should be considered compromised and replaced immediately**
- **Share the new `.env.example` file with your team, never the actual `.env` file**
